Okay, that's a Redding Hardware Company, Columbian pattern.
Columbian design.
This is about 1895.
And how would I clean that up?
Just soak it in a paint strip or something, and then if you want to polish it, polish it, or just leave the original patina on there.
That's wonderful.
And this too, I clean.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Thanks.
Yeah, you're welcome.
There's something you could hang from where your chandeliers used to be down here.
Yeah, I've still got some chandeliers here.
You didn't get everything.
I could put that back in the dining room.
There's a flat one like what's in there.
Let's see the doorknob.
You know what this is?
This is an old gas light, and I got the tapers in there to, you see, you turn the key.
See these gas chandeliers had a key?
Yeah, for gas.
Turn it on.
Well, that fits and you can turn it.
And then this has a wax taper.
There's some in there and you light it.
It's a gas, for gas lights.
They got something like that, like down in the penal hole.
Yeah.
Looks like an old... I used to have that in my old warehouse.
That's just an old fake.
I used to put it up on the bracket and plug it in so the light was in it.
If somebody broke in, they'd think it would.
They were getting photographed.
Yeah.
I didn't have a video system in there, but I did have an alarm system in there.
Where was this?
Minneapolis.
I didn't want to spend the money on a video, but I just had that up.
I bought that as a sale.
It's just as a dummy, you know, something.
Got in there and saw the camera.
Well, that works, you know.
That's the one he stole out of the front.
It's getting jimmy in here now.
Well, Mr. Hall, I suppose.
For a moment, I came alive again when I came in here, you know.
I could see I forgot about what happened, you know.
Collections do that.
We lose ourselves and then, don't we?
That's for a heater.
Yeah?
Yeah, those heaters that you pick up by the handle, that's the end of the sort of work.
It's got two former ownerships and, uh,
The President's Daughter by Nan Britton, B-R-I-T-T-O-N, 1927.
Pulled by Stephen out of a dumpster.
Can you believe that?
Yeah, taking a picture of the dumpster.
You, we all three, we all four witnessed on him.
We all four witnessed him pull out a book like that.
Nobody will ever know.
See, he don't believe it, look.
He just found that autobiography about it.
That's a nice book, isn't it?
1927.
Well, gentlemen, I'll take you out to dinner.
We'll drop Mr. Hall.
Is that all right with you?
I'm riding with you, sir.
All right.
Nobody should be hungry in the land of plenty.
Now let's excuse it.
Well, Luke, I promised you a day in the life of Stephen Blumberg, all right?
You delivered it.
Can you believe it?
Are you happy?
I'm happy.
Watch out.
Can you believe that?
I'm overwhelmed.
Find an autobiography.
about the president.
See, I bet that would be worth something.
Yeah, that's a saleable book.
Yeah, sure.
Yeah, I checked it.
It's not a reprint, either.
This is a nice book, you know.
I don't have too much Iowa material.
Let me see that autobiography book.
It's a biography, it's not an autobiography.
I think, right?
Autobiography is a book you write about yourself.
This is a biography about her writing about you.
It's a biography you write about somebody else.
We'll go out to that place out on the edge of town.
You know where we go, that little... What's that out there, Mr. Hall?
Uh... I'd give it a little something.
Something pretty full of iron.
Yeah.
Dang it.
Well, Steve, what did you just ask them?
Are the people in this town still pretty much on my side?
Mr. Hall, what did you say?
What did they say, Mr. Hall?
Well, you know, they said, hell, they have a hell, a heart and a heart and a fluidity.
He's guilty of it.
Yeah, they take up for Steve all the time.
Oh, that's good.
I'm glad to hear that.
I got a place to go.
Well, because this is home.
You want to be welcome in your home, right?
I really don't know that many people.
Minneapolis, but... A lot of people told me they said they have one hell of a town where he got all them sites.
Well, that's good.
Yeah, I've become kind of a folk legend here, I suppose.
You think so?
I guess you can.
Seem to be, you know, pretty successful.
I think he's going to put Oski on the map even more.
Oski.
What's Oski?
I mean, Otumwa.
Otumwa, yeah.
I like Otumwa.
I'd like to come back here someday.
Can you believe it?
Just pull this out of here.
Are you more comfortable on the road, or do you like staying in this place?
Well, I like being on the road, but I don't know.
I like to come back someplace where I'm wanted to, you know?
Do you agree with this defense that you're taking?
If they could do me some good, but putting me in prison or in an institution isn't a normal place to get people adjusted.
I don't know.
Maybe the whole world's out of sync and I'm all right.
I don't know anymore, though.
I mean, this wasn't your idea, was it?
What?
This defense?
Whose idea was it to take the defense that they take?
The Menninger Clinic.
That was their idea, or your lawyers, would you say?
It's hard to say.
Yeah, it is.
No, the Menninger Clinic.
They took me down there and had me all, because I'd had some problems in the past, you know.
Well, that comes next week, doesn't it, huh?
Yeah.
What's the next question again?
What do you think?
You think I'm crazy?
I've been in your presence now for 5 o'clock in the afternoon.
Yeah.
And you picked me up six hours ago, and you are as lucid and as intelligent a person as I know.
Well, thank you.
You have done a few bizarre things.
That can be undone.
Every man has a right to a mistake, Dougie.
I saw you jump into a couple of dumpsters.
That's strange behavior, but it's not crazy.
But when I came out with something that was good, you rescued something.
Let me tell you a story.
But that was seized.
Did you have that on the wall?
No, I kept it for the case.
Did you?
But it should be pointed out that you would never break up a book to take up a book.
No, no, no, no, I never.
I think that's a sinful thing.
That is a sinful thing to do.
Yeah, break up a book.
I used to hate those people.
They don't listen with rapists.
They used to take the steel engraving.
Some of you used to say, man, I don't understand, because I wrote it for other people off me.
That's still another you thing.
Yeah.
Well, if you win, who says you have to go into the green bin?
The easiest way to pour out of this is just to take the lid off.
Okay.
Who says that?
The government.
If you win?
Yeah.
Right.
If you win, you win.
You're acquitted, right?
Yeah, but then I'm crazy and I'm a danger to society.
I've got to be locked up.
They're going to try to get you on that road.
If you're not guilty, then they're going to try to put you away.
You want some more of us, too?
No, no, for medical reasons.
That's what I tell society I care about.
Do you take pills?
Well, I have a prescription for them.
I really don't like taking them because they make me feel funny, you know?
Yeah.
Yeah, it's pretty sad they got to have such a low-down perfect person to represent one.
Most generally, you'd think they'd want somebody truthful and respectful.
I wanted somebody to know.
You know, you know how I live.
It's not somebody telling you.
It's not going to help, see.
It's not for me to go and talk to Wanda.
You know, for me to talk to Wanda and ask if Wanda tell me about Steve, that's not going to do any good, is it?
It's better for me to talk to Steve to find out about Steve.
Well, yeah, but I suppose she won't tell you about me in her perspective.
Yeah, that would be interesting.
But she doesn't have the passion of the collective.
So what do you think?
What do you prefer?
A victory or a defeat here?
I don't know.
I'm just screwed.
It's a matter of a lesser unemployment of two mistakes, you know?
Say that again?
I love old things.
Books were just a part of things.
Are old things, are they a touchstone for you?
Is this a means by which you're able to commune with the past?
Well, in some ways, but there are a lot of other people that are interested in too.
I was told by somebody once, one of my friends, I managed to smoke that milk all the way back here.
You had sauerkraut salad and coleslaw?
Yeah.
That's good.
Thank you.
Set the rolls here in the middle.
I was told by somebody this is the age of no age.
People are so distressed with the times that they like to identify with other times.
I don't have many problems.
communicating my sentiments and my interests with a wide spectrum of people.
I can pick up with people from like Adam all the way to Mr. Hall, you know.
And you.
And you're not, you know, it's nice to talk, right?
You take people for what they are, regardless of color or nationality.
Now, Steve, this thing about the bar quote, I mean, were you talking seriously to these kids, or are you just joking?
Well, I was talking in anachronism.
I read it in a book.
And it was symbolistically, the government is regimenting people more and more and more.
We are essentially all barcoded right now.
The day they give you a social security, and they require it now in Brooke, my daughter's had social security numbers within three days of their Brooke, you see.
So that's your basic barcode.
Who doesn't want to be on it?
You say you want truth, and you're just a writer and investigator.
Who doesn't want to talk to you?
Lots of people.
I mean, which side, you know?
That's right.
I think you're going to like my book.
I guess I'll ask you if you were apprehensive about what happened this week.
You said you are?
Yeah, yeah.
I'm apprehensive.
Have any apprehensive even about the kinds of things that they're going to present in your defense?
Well, that's going to be kind of painful, isn't it?
Yeah, yeah, it will be.
Publish it all on the paper.
Who needs this, right?
I mean, your father's going to testify, and these people from the Mullinger are going to testify.
Well, what can I do?
I gotta keep on living.
It's just a bad situation that circumstances have gotten me into.
Maybe some day, some way, I can unravel my way out of it.
It's funny.
Life has become...
When I sleep at night and dream, I go back to the way things were, and I'm more secure.
And when I wake up, the nightmare starts.
The actual nightmare?
Have you ever been on a drunk and gone in jail and you wake up and you're in jail and it takes you about 15 minutes to figure out where you are and why you're there?
Does that happen to you?
I don't really drink.
What's happening?
Yeah, I've been arrested in the past.
I wake up.
It takes me a long time to figure out what's happened.
Would you consider yourself a happy person prior to this?
Somewhat.
Of course, now I realize I had more than that.
I should have been happier than what I had, than what I have now.
I'd sure be contented if I was back where it was, or even to be
and not have my friends in trouble.
I feel terrible for those boys.
Well, if you could undo any of this.
And even some of the librarians, well.
You mean those who were affected by these activities?
Yeah, I looked at them as people, and I saw them as people.
I felt bad.
I liked it.
I looked down there.
I liked people.
And you said when the blue came in.
Yeah, that was... I wanted to shake his hand.
He'd only come halfway up.
And he, like those, went back.
See, the government got to him.
I think they think...
He was the guy because of the similarities and maybe he got thrown in jail or something.
Well, that probably made his life miserable.
Oh, I feel terrible about that.
If your name's floating around all of a sudden.
Well, that's one of the unhappy consequences of the whole thing, isn't it?
How about the activity?
Would you have to do all that going back 20 years?
The collecting of books started in the 70s, as they said.
Yeah.
In the manner that we... Mostly in the manner that we've done today in buying it.
Sort of, as I learn more and more, it sort of builds itself up.
That's biglomania.
I've heard of it.
Would you say that you qualify for 15 minutes on the rolls?
Yeah.
You know, I would be happier, though.
I worried so much and tried to protect this stuff so much.
I think I would be happier if I didn't have so much to look out for and protect, and I could go over to friends and share their stuff with them as I try to share my stuff.
Of course, I like to share it with people that don't have an opportunity to see it either, because they can learn, like Adam and saw things today that he enjoyed that he'd never seen, you know, and Mr. Hall, you know.
Don't you think it's nice that they can enjoy these things too?
We enjoy them.
The one woman yesterday, was it from Connecticut?
It wasn't such a good idea to...
to deprive the world of scholarship access to these primary materials.
I'm sure you'd acknowledge that that was probably something that was not... But printed books, you know, there are printed books everywhere, I guess.
You know, that doesn't impede the progress of scholarship.
Well, but still, I...
I had a chance to have them, enjoy them, share them with some people that otherwise wouldn't even know how.
Knowledge is something that you give away and you gain, you know.
And it's not like money where you give away and have less and less of them.
I was able to share that knowledge.
the feel of fine books and that with people who never otherwise had done that for a while.
Did you ever, while this was going on, save yourself, Steven, it's time to stop?
What were you having?
The one we'll shake at the fan of Riverside.
Were you scared out there?
Yeah.
And they just blew it, right?
They just let you go.
I mean... That was close, right?
Yeah.
But did you stop there?
You didn't.
Well, I just went one more time.
That was with Bill.
Well, that was almost his idea, too, right?
Thanks, sir.
Oh, it's fine, but I don't see where she put it.
Anyway, go ahead.
Tell me, go through your relationship again with the Rosenwald.
Oh, okay.
No, Rosenwald.
Lessing Rosen... You said Rosenbeck.
No, no, no, no.
Lessing Jay Rosenwald.
Yeah.
The boy Sears.
I have his book...
uh recollections of a collector very serious book i had that too you did that's a wonderful book he published it himself yeah uh the one that was alive that was a friend of rosenbach's his mother the book collector's mother now who rosenback or rosenwald excuse me rosenwald okay anybody
Blessing Rosenwald's mother was a St.
Paulite.
She was a friend of my grandmother's.
I thought you said there was a blood relationship.
No blood relationship, no.
We've been a prominent family in the Twin Cities since back in the last century.
We knew all the people, especially the Jewish people.
well rosenwald will get mentioned in my book of course yeah uh there's a front text that i really like about those awards what is it the bandidi of the plains that was published out in cheyenne wyoming and it's about the cattle barons and uh what's the title bandidi of the plains yeah is published out in wyoming and uh i guess every copy of that
or every known copy has been either bought up and destroyed or ruined out of libraries.
That was back in the 19th century.
In fact, it's really territorial imprint, I guess, too.
Grant Vaughan Press did a reprint out of it in 30 years.
See, the walking forts of information.
Do you carry all this information around?
I guess you'd have to.
Yeah, as I need it, yeah.
I had a grab horn for this edition of that.
Grab horn is major.
Most collectors like to take things out that I know and enjoy them as a tactile.
Well, I do that too.
I enjoy them, but I like to share them.
I'll buy a copy of your book from you and donate it to the Otumwa Public Library.
They said what?
They didn't like me going to the atomic police department reporting roads, but it turned out favorable.
Who didn't like it?
Well, they were worried that, let's put this way to protect you.
They told me if I got down here, they'd beat me up and that I disgraced the town.
Who said that?
The difference?
Yeah.
But I guess it wouldn't be wise for our down here picking up chumming people.
We've got to maintain the color.
Well, when you picked me up today, for instance.
And Rhonda wouldn't even get up and go see you.
No, but I mean, when you picked me up today, I made sure there was nobody.
Yeah, yeah.
So I just made sure that there was no, you know, I don't want to see something in the car.
I appreciate it.
So, how's he doing?
Almost done.
Thank you.
His name was Mr. Stovasher.
He was an old man.
He had one hand.
And he was a master locksmith.
And they had him in a cell right across from the guard station.
And I used to go in and he collected antique locks.
No thanks.
I used to go in and talk about antique locks and stuff with him and this and that.
And I said, Mr. Stovasher, you don't look like you hurt anybody or anything.
He was like a 65-year-old man.
Why do they keep such an eye on you?
And he told me, he says,
I could be out of here in 30 minutes.
And there must have been about 10 different places you go through.
And I says, how do you figure?
And he says, well, these, you know what kind of locks these are?
And I says, yeah, they're old Flagler locks.
And he says, well, I can, with a hairpin or a bobby pin or something, I can, in about five minutes of lock, get through and get out of here.
So they won't let me get out of their sight.
I've been here for nine months.
With one hand.
Boy, he's really got a talent.
You ain't kidding, with one hand.
Is that right?
You let it dance to death?
Yeah.
Is that one that went back?
Yeah, it went quite way back.
I mean, is it one that is now in Omaha?
Yeah.
I'm sorry.
Say that again?
I wonder how we're going to straighten the matter out.
They really can't do it without me.
I don't think they can do it satisfactorily without you, you know?
No.
So remains to be seen.
It might be worth having some of these librarians, these professionals, suggest, you know, should you be convicted.
Have them suggest, you know, let's put him to work on this.
You know, he's not going to.
I'd like to do that.
And I intend to do that.
But one thing I want, though, is I want things known about how the government acts with bears.
I'm going to be honest.
I'll be the first one.
To put everything, all my cards on the table.
And I will regardless, because that's the thing to do.
But I would like it for the government to do the same.
It should be interesting to look.
Yeah.
We know who the bad guys are, you know.
This is a big house.
Isn't this a nice house?
Yeah.
It's a big warm, too.
How do you heat it?
Oil?
Oh, it's gas furnace.
All right, Jimmy.
Good luck, friend.
God bless you.
I hope you come out in a minute.
Oh, God, I'm trying.
Nice meeting you, sir.
I wish you the best of luck, too.
I wish you so.
Okay.
Nice to meet you.
Bye, Jimmy.
Don't get too bad.
We'll be down in Tokyo.
Okay.
Tell him hi for me, will you?
All right.
I will.
I got more mentally excited today than physically.
I mean, mentally.
So, how has your family done?
Have they been supportive?
Well, yeah, but it's awful hard on them.
It's been a disgrace for them.
I feel bad about them.
I feel terrible.
Do you have any siblings?
No.
Maybe someday I will.
I don't know.
But I just regard the people in the street as my siblings.
And you have no brother's assistant?
Oh, yeah.
I have a...
Our sister out in Seattle teaches and teaches Spanish.
When you were on the road for these periods of time, did you stay in touch with your family?
Yeah, and my father especially.
Well, maybe I'll have a home come through here someday.
It's a pretty little town, isn't it?
It's kind of nice.
There's the Wapaloe County Courthouse.
W-A-P-P-A-L-O?
Yeah, it used to have a tower on it, and that was taken off in the 40s, but there's Chief Wapaloe, the Indian.
That's Chief Wapaloe.
Yeah, that the town was named after.
What, he's on the top of the building?
Yeah, you see him.
Oh, there he is, right on top of the building.
Oh, that's a beautiful statue, isn't it?
Yeah, a cast statue.
So do you feel like an Irwin?
No, I'm still a Minnepolitan.
But maybe this is a place I can be welcome.
What did you think when you saw this?
Did you say, well, this is home?
Well, I thought of the... I mean, was it central for you, too?
Well, it's on the way to Texas, but I thought of it as the elderly neighbor lady coming over and bringing over a pie and...
uh going down on the main street and talking with people about places or something like that but well the trouble is i was a little out of touch you see i couldn't go down to the main street and talk about incanabula can i get a soda and uh there was a somewhat of a cultural break here but
we now have you see this town there's a lot of animosity here because these people are distressed because there's a high rate on this has some of the highest rate of unemployment there's economic hardship here there's not really any personal animosity and uh the people here it's way off the interstate it's kind of a community into itself most of these people have never been any place except for des moines and that so they don't have a real
cosmopolitan air about them, and they're somewhat suspicious of outsiders at first.
Well, now with this thing, I've become part of the town.
I have lived through an ordeal, and the town has been part of it.
So now I'm part of the community, so I sense an acceptance down here now, you know?
That's nice.
Test point 234.
Did I recognize him?
Did he say anything?
No.
I'm sorry, say that again?
You know a lady who was from this town, her name was Edna Purva.
Edna Purva was here.
She lived right at the foot of, see this has been changed, this is Wapolo Street.
And she lived right at the foot of Wapolo Street.
And she lived here for, yeah, she lived here for like,
five or six years and she writes of her experiences in the town in a book called Peculiar Treasures which was published in 1936.
But unfortunately she had a rather bad experience here.
In fact she had an experience quite similar to mine.
Her father came here and he opened up a small
Notion's store, you know.
Notion's, you know, five and dime type store.
And he was betrayed by an employee.
His store manager was tiltering and ripping off his store.
And he discovered that and he sued him.
Well, this lawsuit went on and on and he lost the lawsuit.
He lost most of his money.
And he developed some health problems.
He got some problems with his eyes, cataracts or something.
And finally, they moved on to Appleton, Wisconsin, and things were better for her.
And she writes of that chapter in her life.
But she has bad feelings and sort of
misgivings about the town, but yet she says she learned a lot from it.
And she writes of coming back here in the night and seeing it, but it being too painful for her, and then driving back to Des Moines under a starlit knife, and the pain of Otumwa.
But Otumwa didn't cause me any pain.
In fact, I've gotten a relief from pain by being in Otumwa.
like a fellow employee that betrayed me like Edna Ferber, but I brought him in.
He wasn't, my pain was not derived from Otumwa.
It was derived from elsewhere and my sort of solace or somewhat of a relief comes from going to Otumwa.
I'm treated by and large in this bad situation nicely by the Otumwa.
So in that way it's
There's these similarities to the situation, but the conclusion of it isn't a negative thing like with Edna Ferber.
But it's interesting, the parallel.
You ought to read that chapter in her book, Peculiar Treasures, sometime.
Had you read this prior to your... Yeah, prior to it, yeah.
Yeah, you know, she wrote Showboat.
Oh, she's famous.
Yeah.
Well, you know who, you know, Showboat, wasn't it, Jerome Curran?
He had quite a library.
He's one of a great collectors.
Yeah, I know he was.
In fact, the Curran sale in the 20s, 29, was the highlight.
That's right.
A book price.
Well, let me tell you, I have a chapter.
You own an association company?
Yeah, I have some interesting association companies.
You can't tell me about any of them now?
Well,
Yeah, you know, I don't even know if they were... I had three, four presidential copies of books.
I had a book I bought in Galena, Illinois.
It was Heath's counterfeit detector.
And Lieben Heath, shortly after the Civil War, was the only person authorized by the government to use government plates to strike
plates in the book, actual plates of money, and this book was sold or distributed to banks to look for counterfeit bank notes.
No kidding.
And it's quite a collectible item numismatically as well as in other aspects.
Now the title of the book again?
Lieben Heath is the author.
Can you spell it?
H-E-A-T-H.
What's your first name?
Lieben.
Lieben, L-I-E-B?
No, or Leben.
L-E-B-E-N.
And I in Galena, Illinois, was in a shop and they told me about an old man that sort of dealt books out of his house.
And he had a full leather copy.
It came out in a green cloth.
And he had a full leather copy that was, it said, in gold tooling, to our president, U.S.
Grant.
And Grant was president in 1868 at the time the book was published.
That was one.
I had a book, a view book of Council Bluffs, Iowa, that was given to Grover Cleveland.
It's stamped in there.
Probably he went through an entourage or something, and it was presented when he stopped in the city.
Then I had a view book of St.
Paul.
Where did you get that?
I don't remember.
I didn't have to look at it.
Do you think it was one acquired on your journeys?
I...
I don't know.
Possibly.
Do you think it's one that's been confiscated?
Well, they confiscated all my books.
I don't know if it's been claimed or not.
I mean, is it one that's likely to be claimed by any institution?
I don't think so.
Now, what's the most you ever spent personally for a book?
That's a fair question.
Well, there was one I tried to buy, but it was gone by the time I got there.
I tried to buy a copy of Wandusky by Tuttle, and it's in-house.
It's a double A listing in-house.
Spell it.
W-A-M-D-U-S-K-I.
What is it?
It's a record of a private duck hunting excursion to North Dakota.
It was published by a fellow named Tuttle, who was a historian of Minneapolis.
He published like a three-volume set, Tuttle's History of Minneapolis.
And I wanted it because there were only 25 copies issued.
And I guess from the description is one of those that they pasted in photos of the surrounding countryside.
But it's so early that it's an early travel narrative of North Dakota, and it's a desirable Americana item.
Well, Jenkins had it for $500.
And I tried to get it, but I was too late.
Would that have been the most you'd ever paid for a book?
That would have been, yeah.
And what is the most you have ever paid, do you think?
I don't know.
I bought them in quantities.
I suppose $200, $300.
I mean, the idea of spending, say, $1,000 for a book, would it be totally alien to you?
No, not for the right book.
The type of book I'd spend that kind of money on would be, oh, a
trade catalog from the St.
Paul Art Glass Company or something I'm doing research in that may not necessarily be worth that, but it'd be of value to me to document some of my other architectural things.
Now documenting, were you writing?
Were you writing things down?
Well, I was chronicalizing them in my mind, and maybe eventually I would like to write.
What would you like to have written?
Well, I have a book and manuscript that I hadn't put the text in, but I had a collection of over 700 different pre-1930 Minneapolis and St.
Paul postcards.
And I was going to use them as views illustrating the city.
And I was going to write about the history of the buildings and the history of the scenes in there.
Like, I'd have Hennepin Avenue, and I'd have a page of, like,
or two pages of 1900 cards, like Seventh and Hennepin, 1900, then 1910, then 1920, of the same views, so you could follow the change in architecture.
And then I had a section in there of public buildings, city halls and so forth, office buildings, churches, residences, and then views of schools.
uh parks and so forth i had all that manuscript and you know i've been collecting twin city cars for 20 years and i grabbed that do you think you'd like to write at some point possibly i really don't know how to build this picture that you gave today shows skill and talent thank you and you love architecture has you ever thought of being an architect
Well, I'd like to be an architectural historian or consultant, but I don't know if I could stand the regimentation of going to school.
I've always felt I had a bad time in school.
I've always felt I'd be looked down on and made fun of by the fellow students.
But then again, I don't know if I would.
I like scholars, but I've just always felt out of place.
Do you consider yourself a scholar?
Not really.
Well, if you do research, what is astrology?
Did you get any kind of visceral pleasure when you went into some of these institutions and you were accepted as an academic mission?
Yeah.
Oh, yeah, I did.
I did, yeah.
What did you feel?
I was surprised that I was accepted.
I mean, you're articulate.
You certainly have a focus.
Yeah, but I barely made it through high school.
You know?
Yeah.
But I've done a lot of reading.
All my educations come from reading and talking to people and observing what's around me and speculating and analyzing things.
Absolutely.
I'm going to have to to take the fear out of the academic community.
They've suffered somewhat of an injustice, and I owe it to them, but I think they're more scared than they should be.
Okay, well, I think that my book is the place to do it, you know.
Yeah.
Don't you think so?
That'd be all right.
I mean, you are dealing with a fellow bibliophile.
Yeah.
I am writing about book collecting and book collectors.
I've got a contract with a major publisher.
Yeah.
So this is nothing speculative.
We're going to have a book out next year.
And maybe if this thing goes to the jury prior... Ray Cornell did tell me, by the way, that as soon as this thing goes to the jury, you don't even have to be a verdict, that you're free to talk to me about anything you want.
Well, it's hard to sit there in Des Moines and do it.
Really, I feel better when I'm out on the highway like this with my friends.
You've got me back tonight in my life, you know.
I go back to Des Moines and I die again, you know, or I go back to that house without my stuff.
I really feel good.
You feel violated when you went to the house?
Yeah, yeah.
I mean, like it's a rape almost, isn't it?
Well, yeah.
This man has brutalized your house.
Yeah, yeah.
I'm sorry, you were going to say they took what?
Yeah, they took the chandeliers and the windows.
They didn't care, you know.
And he didn't care, especially.
I think there could have been a gentler way to resolve this man.
But I shouldn't feel sorry for myself.
I realize I've transgressed on some other people, and I'm going to have to try to make it right somehow.
I don't want Mr. Magoo to be afraid to shake my hand or anything.
I don't want anybody afraid of me.
That does, yeah.
Mr. Magoo is special.
Yeah.
Is that the first time you saw him?
Yep.
Where did you find his ID?
I was just walking out the door, and it was laying on the circulation desk.
And you didn't give a... You gave the thought what?
I mean, how quickly did the thought go through your mind?
Instantly.
And I looked at that, and I said, you know, I understand how things are made in that.
And I said, oh, you know.
And this was about, what, 87?
No, no, no, 80.
So this did elevate the collection to a new level, didn't it?
Well, it took me a while to get, I didn't want to do it until I could do it right.
I wanted to get alternate types of ID, and I couldn't do it within the state, so I had to, you know, I could throw out on the trial, go out to California.
But if I'd have known the similarities of our background and the jeopardy you could possibly have put him in, I wouldn't have done him.
God, it's terrible.
I just couldn't believe it.
Yeah?
Well, my biggest threat of all is I'll be in jail and my father will leave me.
He might pass away.
Are you close to your father?
Very close.
I'm the closest person to him in his life and him to me.
See, I'm like my father's son and brother because his mother was the closest woman in my life as well as his.
Your grandmother?
Yeah.
You were very close to your grandmother?
Very close, yeah.
Do you think that this is for him at all?
Oh, dreadful.
You know, I've seen his quotes in the newspaper.
He is very supportive of you.
Yes, he is.
He sounds like he's a very loving father.
He is.
I'll introduce you to him if you want to be here.
I'd like that.
I know Ray Cornell told me.
I asked him prior to this.
I said, do you think I can talk to Dr. Blumberg?
And he said, yeah, I think so.
Maybe tomorrow, even.
It's all right with you.
You don't mind.
No.
Maybe I think it'd be better if I...
If you weren't there while I interviewed him, what do you think?
It's up to you.
I don't have anything to hide.
I know, but I think maybe I could talk a little more frankly with him.
You know, I wouldn't want you to feel embarrassed by anything, you know?
Well, we'll see what's playing by him, right?
Yeah.
I want you to spend the day living the way I live with the type of people I associate with.
You know, I don't think these people that talk about me can understand the feeling, like somebody who's with me, you know.
You know the roads, huh?
Oh, yeah.
You love the orphan drive.
And stop and meet people in junk shops.
I can just imagine.
Explore.
Oh, yeah, I went from Maine to California, you know.
I could drive all the way back to Brimfield without a map.
You know, have you been through all the contiguous 48?
Yeah, I haven't been in Alabama or too much down in that, but I've been through, yeah.
But, like, when I go across New York to Brimfield, I take Route 20.
I don't take the New York Thruway.
I stop in all those little towns along the way.
It takes me three days to cross New York State.
And I get to visiting with people and into people's homes.
Do you have a girlfriend at all, or you're pretty much of a loner?
Pretty much of a loner.
I've had some friends, but in a way I kind of mistrust women because my mother's up across my head, you know.
Well, I'm excited and thrilled on the one hand, and I'm apprehensive for you on the other.
Oh, I'm apprehensive too.
Oh, you like to paint, huh?
I'm a real artist, man.
See, that's why my uncle, he does.
Uncle does tattoos?
Yeah.
Do you have tattoos?
How old are you?
16.
I do something like that one, though.
But see, he's got this wizard on his back.
Oh, yeah.
And he ain't got all the way to be able to see.
He's a pretty good artist.
I mean, I love meetings up on the walls in the apartment.
Have you seen them?
No, you ought to see the Victorian houses I draw on that.
But I love painting.
Yeah.
Art and works is like my hobbies.
Ackerman Museum.
Mr. Ackerman was a banker, small-town banker.
He died in his estate.
Kept that as sort of a... That's an old, small-town Midwestern Iowa bank that's still the way it is.
I've never seen it open.
Have you ever been in it?
No, I've looked in the windows.
I never found it open.
Drying up, you know.
There's no work.
There's a piece in the paper this morning.
It says that the population isn't floating.
It's all kind of pulling into the... It's sort of sad to see, you know.
But that's sort of a relic of the past, of a commercial...
enterprising small Iowa town.
It'd be nice to go and see that someday.
Sure, and I love the museum too.
Yeah, I do too.
There's a museum up in St.
Helena, the Silverado Museum, California.
Oh.
Actually, a great love museum.
Yeah, yeah, I had the first edition of that.
Is that right?
Yeah.
I think it was published in London, wasn't it?
It was, yeah.
Yeah, it had a green cloth cover.
I had an uncut edition of that.
Sam, what's his name?
How do you spell it?
Boy, I never thought I'd get down to a tender on this trip, so I knew you.
Oh, tough.
Boy, yeah.
Steve Hunt.
I really enjoyed it.
Thank you very much.
Thanks for the appeal.
Enjoy the company ourselves, at least.
Yep.
Someday maybe I can take these islands out east and experience the culture out there.
Oh, I've seen it.
I took the Baja.
I drove the Baja Petitiano right down to the tip, Cabo San Lucas.
And I used to go out to California with my truck, and I found an old 1950 Chevy on a ranch in Amarillo.
And it had a rebuilt motor.
And I'd pull it behind there with a tow bar.
And I'd park my truck in a RV rent, a storage place.
And I was in Los Angeles during the winter.
I wanted to go to the beach and see the ocean without having to park three blocks away and all the crowds.
So I said, I'm going to keep going south until it's nothing but me and the ocean.
And I did.
I got down to Ensenada, and there were still people.
And then I made it down to Guerrero Negro.
And they have the salt mines there.
And then Rosarito and
mula hay, and loretto.
You know, Baja California, or lower California, was older than
Northern California.
And I wanted to see California as it was before the Anglos got there.
And they had what was called the El Camino Real.
I spread three years of California.
El Camino Real.
Well, I took the old part of that.
In the Becerra.
Yeah.
The Cadre.
Well, I took that in a 1950 Chevy with David Olson.
And, uh,
That's about 800, 900 miles down there.
And the car was all faded out and that, and an old three-speed on the column, you know.
Like, if you go down to Mexico in this, you stand out, but you go down in an old 30-year-old faded out car.
Yeah, I didn't want to go to Mexico in anything like this.
I didn't even have to lock the doors.
And I'd come in and do a gas station.
People would come up and talk in English, or excuse me, in Spanish.
I didn't understand it.
And they'd look at me like I'd have old clothes, and I had to take a bath.
And they'd look at me, and they'd think, well, you're an American, but what happened?
Because in some of these communities, I got away from the touristes.
And I could sense kind of they didn't care for the touristes.
And I'll give you an example of that.
I was in one of those towns, and these gas stations sometimes are 70, 80 miles apart.
It's real fair.
And a fellow pulled in.
with a big RV.
And all the gas stations there, they're called Pemex.
And they're government owned and the people are government employees, you know.
And this guy, I figured he had like 100 or 150 gallon capacity on that thing.
I know he'd filled up in like National City or in the United States border and he just got down there and he was out of gas.
Well, I've been down there a month.
I was heading north.
Well, their gas is metric and it's in pesos.
And I always converted my money into pesos and paid them their money.
Well, he gets down there and the guy fills it up.
And it was liters, and I don't know, it was five liters to a gallon or something.
But this guy, it takes a while to, you've got to convert twice.
You've got to convert into metric, and then you've got to convert the metric price into pesos.
It was two conversions.
Well, I would know, after being there a month, just exactly how much gas
you know, how much 10 gallons of gas would be in liters and in American money or Mexican money.
Well, this guy didn't have enough Mexican money, and he had to pay part of an American, and this was just a gas station kind of in a little village, and I knew he was going to have trouble converting it, if he will.
So he started arguing with the guy that he was getting ripped off because it comes to something like,
The peso was $2,300 to the dollar, and it was something like 100,000 pesos, or, you know, it seemed like a high price, but I figured it out.
He was giving him a fair price, and they got in an argument about it.
And I went up and told the guy, I says, hey, you know, you're not being cheated.
And he says, well, I don't have any.
I got to get my wife and get some American money, and there isn't a currency exchange.
And I says, just go in and pay it.
see the attendant was upset with this.
He knew that his honesty, his integrity, the challenge.
He come up to me and he said something in Spanish.
He looked over to him, probably some cuss word, and they said, Gringo.
And I said, well, fill her up.
And he looked like, you're one of them too, but you're not.
And I just, I can't speak Spanish, but sometimes I get in conversations for
15-20 minutes with people down there and you could communicate but yet not know the language, you know?
And they'd ask where I was from and I'd tell them Minnesota but they didn't understand.
I'd just say Canada and right away they knew I was from the northern part of the United States and I spoke English.
But the fact that I didn't have my tourist outfit and my camera and
that I look like those people, driving a vehicle much like them, and living much the same lifestyle, I never sensed any how stupid down there.
How did you feel about these characterizations that you're in Kemp?
You didn't look like Kemp to be a little more.
Is there anything you don't want to talk about?
Oh, I don't know.
I think it's kind of degrading.
It is degrading.
Yeah, I think it is.
I think it is.
And I'm worried that if I get thrown in the green bin, they're going to try to take my soul away, you know.
You know, all I got to do is just think a little bit more about what I do and make sure my actions don't hurt or upset people.
And that's that, you know.
But I don't know what they're going to use to judge.
I usually ask these psychiatrists questions about things, you know.
Like what?
Oh, they ask me weird questions, so I ask them stuff back.
Like why I'd go in that dumpster and so forth when I'd have a pound of gold on me.
You don't need to dig in dumpsters.
Well, yes, you do, but we rescued the treasure today.
A book that would have been... That's great.
Yeah.
I always like that saying, you want to say, you want to say, you want to say, you want to say it's garbage, it's garbage, it's treasure.
That's sure true, Adam.
That's sure true.
Do you carry gold like that?
Well, I used to when I'd come up from Texas, because, you see, I was...
I had a storage problem, and I was trying to, you know, I got an awful lot of stuff, and I was trying to cut down on the quantity of stuff that I had.
And I was selling that, but I wanted to keep it in some sort of collectible form.
So I knew people down in the southwest, they're having economic trouble there, that would, coin dealers and that, that would sell me
not high-grade coins, but circulated coins that about melt.
Because, you see, expensive coins for a coin dealer, that don't pay the rent.
You know, $20 gold piece for $400, people aren't going to come in and buy that.
You know, you buy a $20 gold piece, let's say you pay $3.60, you're going to sit there for months before you get $4.50 out of it.
They're not a quick turnover.
It's better to buy wheat pennies at two cents a piece and sell them for a nickel, or buffalo nickels at a quarter and sell them for 50 cents.
You're going to have more profit margin or good collection.